---
layout: post
title: week 3
---

# Blog Post 3: In Class Git Activities & Jim Hall

## Jim Hall

This week, we got to listen to Jim Hall speak about his decades long experience as an open source software developer. One of Jim’s most notable project’s that he started was FreeDOS, which he talked about at length during his presentation. Personally I had 3 main takeaways from the presentation.

### Closed Source Projects Leading to Open Source Projects
- Jim Hall talked about how FreeDOS started because of a desire to keep DOS alive. MS-DOS, created by Microsoft, had been discontinued and as Jim said, Windows was trying to declare DOS as dead. MS-DOS was very much a closed source project since it was created by Microsoft internal employees. As Jim mentioned though, other developers got in touch with him about their own versions of DOS they had been using to still play classic DOS games for example. As such, he started the Open Source project FreeDOS with inspiration from a Closed Source project. This trend of open source projects starting as a means to replicate closed source software was common in the early days of open source which I found quite interesting.

### Public Domain vs Free Software vs Open Source
- Jim also talked about how they originally named FreeDOS, PdDOS with Pd being short for “Public Domain”. Pd however did not quite fit their intended goal since Public Domain is not Copyrighted whereas Free Software is Copyrighted but can be used by anyone under the terms of a free license. I found it especially intriguing when Jim talked about how the community began rebranding Free Software as Open Source software instead so that businesses would be more willing to adopt Open Source practices. Businesses did have something to gain from making their software Open Source, such as contributions from others, but calling it Free Software made it seem more like a charitable favor to businesses. 

### Importance of Useability
One of the last questions Jim got was how we can make Open Source more accessible to non-technical people, and Jim’s answer was to focus more on useability. Specifically he said that real people should be able to use the software easily to do real tasks. He mentioned one way of testing useability, is to sit down with 5 people and just observe how they use your software/product. I thought this was really smart because essentially what you are doing is user testing. The developer certainly knows how the product works since they created it. But to strip out the inherent bias that the developer has, you need to test on real people to see if things will stick for the mass majority of people. 

## Github
Personally, I came into this class having used git once before in another class where we worked on a group software project. Working on a project using git was quite helpful as it gave me the basic understanding of the working directory, the staging area, the local directory and the remote directory (github) as well as working on separate branches. Also, from running into merge conflicts during that project, I learned that it’s important to always pull from the remote repository before pushing your changes.

The git activity was quite helpful in providing more context behind what many of these git actions really do though. In my previous project, I mostly kept repeating the same commands so it was easy to almost mindlessly do the same things over and over again, but this activity introduced me, for example, to new git concepts like git fork and git remote add upstream URL which was used to link a forked repo to the original one. As well, I learned that using git add . is not good practice since it adds every single file.
