---
layout: post
title: week 8
---

# Blog Post 8: Reflection on California Design System Project and Tom Calloway

---
layout: post
title: week 8
---

# Blog Post 8: Reflection on California Design System Project and Tom Calloway

## California Design System Project

This past week, I was put in a group with Jay Li and Javier. During class on Tuesday we spent the first half evaluating potential open source projects to choose as our group project that we’d focus on contributing to. We examined projects like Ploomber, Pandemic Produce Delivery app, and electricity map. Each of these projects though either seemed a bit too complicated for us, or were not contributed to recently. 

As such, we ended up deciding on going with California Design System Project, which is an open source project that creates state branded web components that state digital teams can use for the products that they create for Californian citizens. The projected appeal to us since we were all fans of UX/UI design. Personally, improving my frontend design skills was also a goal of mine that aligns with this project. The only concern was that they did not have a messaging channel like Slack. However, they’re issues tab seemed quite responsive so we each sent messages expressing our desire to contribute via an issue. One of the moderators replied and gave us his email to set up a chat with him and some of the team on how we can contribute. I sent him an email and now our team is set to chat with them this Thursday at 4 pm ET via Zoom. Before the meeting, we as a team aim to take a deeper look at the issues we could help with as well as clone, run, and play with their repo and the contents of it. 

## Tom Callaway

Last class, we also got to listen to Tom Calloway speak. Tom mentioned started with Red Hat when the team was small enough that he could meet everyone in one room and that he worked there for about 15 years before moving to Amazon. I found it interesting how he talked about how he saw Red Hat grow and then ultimately get acquired by IBM and how he decided to switch to Amazon since he needed a change in the type of work he was doing and why he was doing that work. Specifically, it was interesting hearing how when he interviewed at Amazon, he made sure to interview them too if they were a good fit for him as he asked about whether he’d get liberty to speak his mind regarding open source evangelism within Amazon’s cloud products.

Lastly, I appreciated the example of his favorite project that he worked on at Amazon which was the BabelFish app that allows PostgreSQL to understand queries from applications written for Microsoft SQL Server. It was cool hearing how so many developers are versed in SQL Server but with the popularity of PostreSQL, having a translator saves time for developers since they don’t need to adapt to a new language when querying a PostreSQL database.

