---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


# Blog Post 2: Code of Conduct Activity

## Part 1: Code of Conduct Document for GO

### Benefits of Code of Conduct
Having a Code of Conduct document provides a universal baseline standard that people can refer to regarding what the expectations are for how people are expected to act when contributing or using the repository. The nature of Open Source development is that there will be people from all different backgrounds potentially contributing, and they may have different ways of approaching issues that can very easily be misunderstood when communicating via the internet. As such, the Code of Conduct helps ameliorate this problem by providing a set of guidelines that allow for diversity but also reduce potential misunderstandings by encouraging people to remember some basic behaviors that we should all agree on.


### Two Differences From Contributor Covenant & GO

#### Gophers
In the GO Code of Conduct, there is a whole section called “Gopher Values” that is not in the Contributor Covenant. Referring to contributors as Gophers is a nice way for GO to create a community since it helps people feel that they too can identify as a Gopher and be part of this team. 
Conflict Resolution
The GO Code of Conduct also expands upon the topic of Conflict Resolution that is also mentioned in the Contributor Covenant. GO specifically, adds more verbiage regarding how they don’t view all conflict as bad since healthy debate and disagreement can lead to productive results. 

#### Eclipse

Unlike the GO Code of Conduct, the Eclipse Code of Conduct is almost identical to the Contributor Covenant. This may be because Eclipse is a much larger organization and thus may prioritize others apart from their Code of Conduct. Eclipse may already have other methods of cultivating success with contributors, compared to GO which is smaller, meaning they may more heavily prioritize adapting the Contributor Covenant and fostering a strong sense of community as their way of succeeding. 


## Part 2: Sugar Labs

The Sugar Lab’s Code of Covenant does not include sections such as a “Our Pledge”, “Our Standards” or “Our Responsibilities”. Instead it focuses more on a select few ideologies that it uses as it’s headers such as “When you disagree, consult others” or “Be respectful”.  As such, the overall content is similar, but what’s emphasized is different. Sugar Lab’s Code of Covenant is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct.

## Part 3: React Native

React Native is a frontend development library created by Facebook and their conduce of conduct is [here](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Like Eclipse, this code of conduct is identical to the Contributor Covenant. Facebook is one of the largest companies in the world meaning they likely have quite strict rules regarding contributions in the first place. Facebook’s focus on strict rules could suggest that the code of conduct on the other hand is a lower priority for them, than it would be for a smaller organization like GO that relies a lot on giving it’s open source community developers more leeway to allow for innovation. 

