---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
# Week 1 Blog Post: Introduction to Open Source

### By: Alex Hu

I decided to register in an open source course because I’ve always been intrigued by the idea of being able to leverage ideas that are already out there and improving upon them. Change can be a painstakingly long process. Whether it’s trying to reduce climate change, building new transportation systems, or making the college education model more accessible, we see time and time again that it’s hard to unite people and their efforts in an efficient manner to create real tangible action. To me, open source software is one way in the technology space that people can actually pursue change in an efficient way where you don’t have to start at square one every time. 

When I think of the term “Open Source” I think about software that is created by an entity, that can then be shared and re-used by anyone as they please within the conditions of the open source license. Often this sharing of software can help save others time in their own endeavours and can ultimately lead to improvements upon the original software via contributions from other users of the software. Some advantages to this open source model are that you can leverage the diverse knowledge of people around the world to improve upon your code while still having control over what should be added or not to the official main branch so that the original integrity of the software is maintained. A downside is that managing such an open source project can be messy with so many people suggesting additions or changes. Also there is the risk of people violating the terms of the license. Closed software, thus, can be simpler in certain situations since it cuts out the noise of other contributors and allows the original creators to focus on their work, without risks of plagiarism and other business harm. 

A few open source software projects I use regularly are React, the pandas python library, GIMP and Firefox. React, is a javascript frontend framework and pandas is a python data manipulation library. I have been learning to use both React and pandas over the past few semesters and I enjoy how expansive the documentation is for both React and pandas when it comes to things like naming conventions and/or file organization for example. The transparency in both React and pandas really improves the coding and debugging experience and is a product of the open source movement. GIMP is a graphic design software that I like playing around with that is free. GIMP seems to regularly push out cool updates based on the feedback from users and open source contributors which I enjoy. Firefox is a browser that I’ve used from time to time that I recently found out was also open source. Browsers are used almost universally by anyone who uses the internet and so I think it’s fair that such a product would be open source so that any user can try to contribute

