---
layout: post
title: week 7
---

# Blog Post 7: Reflection on The Cathedral and the Bazaar, Open Source on Global Affairs, and Project Evaluations

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar

I liked how this essay made the analogy of large software projects being more like a Bazaar than building a Cathedral. You’d think something like software would need to be meticulously planned out so that multiple people can work on it and create something coherent in the end. However, the most efficient and effective open source software projects today, for example, have been created through many people coming in to iterate existing software by providing differing approaches and ideas like a great babbling bazaar.

I also appreciated the 5 quotes that were provided and the examples given in relation to each one. The quote that resonated with me the most was the third one, “So if you want to get it right, be ready to start over at least once”. In previous coding classes, when working together with others on homeworks, it’s easy to see that there are so many ways to approach problems. So like many things in life, it’s important to recognize that your way may not be the best. By opening yourself up to other perspectives, you can leverage the perspectives of others to better your own work, whether that means starting over or redoing a specific part. 


## Open Source and Global Affairs

The nature of software development means that any open source software has the potential to impact the lives of anyone around the globe who has access to the internet. There are surely many powerful projects that have made impacts on global affairs but this week I learned about the idea of open-source intelligence or OSINT via Lev Berstein’s blog post which I found quite interesting. Specifically I read an article Lev mentioned about the impact of [OSINT][https://www.theweek.co.uk/news/technology/956029/what-is-open-source-intelligence-ukraine-war] on Ukraine currently. I found it interesting as these researchers aren’t necessarily traditional coders but their work constitutes open source since they are collecting data via creative ways (whether it’s youtube channels, google maps) to produce actionable security related information. These insights, since they are based on freely available data, are merely part of the picture. However, this information can provide helpful hints for what’s likely about to happen which reminded me a lot of a phenom called “tipping” in baseball where a hitter picks up on a pitcher tendencies to inform him of what pitch they are likely to throw (eg. every time the pitcher throws a curveball his glove tends to brush by his left leg).


## Project Selection

Personally, I ended up putting down 4 projects as ones I’d be interested to work on in my project preference form. When looking through the projects, the most interesting ones to me firstly were the ones who were related to more social causes since their missions spoke more to me. As such, the Pandemic Produce Delivery Project and the Precious Plastic projects both stood out to me as ones that I think I’d be passionate about working on. Both projects are in Javascript and Typescript and seem to involve mostly web development using frameworks like React. I have coded a bit using the MERN stack and I’d love to get better at it. While I haven't used Typescript I’ve heard it is similar to Javascript and would also be open to learning more about other web development stacks. 

Data is also an interest of mine which is why I ended up also selecting Electricity Map and Ploomber. Both these projects utilize Python which I’m comfortable with. The Electricity Map is cool and has some social good components to it as well, although not as direct as the first two. Ploomber, while not directly related to social good, also interested me since it is more focused on jupyter notebook and data science. I have experience using juptyer notebooks so I think it could be cool to work on extensions for jupyter notebook. As well, data science is a field I’d like to learn more about.
