---
layout: post
title: week 6
---

# Blog Post 6: Reflection on Christopher Snider and the Role of Open Efforts on Communities

## Christopher Snider

I enjoyed having Christopher Snider come talk to us about Tidepool and specific questions we had about Tidepool and Open Source development. I enjoyed learning about their software that utilizes third party hardware and their plans to create software that can lead to automated, dynamic, insulin injection systems for diabetes patients.

I also enjoyed hearing about how the non-profit status comes into play at work at Tidepool. Like many non-profit startups, Christopher talked about how Tidepool receives donations, grants and other development agreements. Each person in the company gets a paid salary but the point of the company is not to make revenue. While lots of people in Tidepool have diabetes and are thus directly connected to the issue at all, there are also others working at Tidepool without diabetes who are simply passionate about the work and/or the potential to help the diabetes community.

Lastly, I thought Snider’s answer to my question about how he views similar competitors such as Glooko or Livongo was insightful. I was surprised he did not address Livongo since they are a public company and a rather mature company in the Blood Glucose monitoring business. Snider’s answer to the Glooko part of the question, though, highlighted the pros and cons of something like Tidepool that relies on open source development vs a standard venture backed startup. Glooko is in more clinics than Tidepool and has more features, but Glooko also charges each clinician a 6 figure fee and Tidepool is in the process of creating features similar to Glooko. While ToolPool is slower than Glooko at releasing new features (likely due to lack of funding) Snider mentioned that clinicians are very excited for Tidepool's products. A main reason they are excited and want to switch to Tidepool eventually is because the features would be provided for free. 


## The role of open efforts in communities

Open source efforts are important in helping to make technological advancements accessible to everyone in any community. Like we saw with the comparison between Glooko and Tidepool, Tidepool aims to eventually have very similar functionality to Glooko, yet they plan to offer it for free while Glooko charges clinicians a 6 figure price tag. Many contributors in open source projects are personally invested in the cause they are building for, like how many employees in Tidepool themselves have diabetes. Snider, in fact, highlighted during his talk how he felt the diabetes community was such a great one with people helping each other out and/or providing feedback on Tidepool as well. At the same time, there are other contributors who are simply passionate about these issues and I think it’s intriguing to think about how we can get more and more people involved with less popular open source projects that might tackle issues with not as strong of a community as the diabetes community for example.

We also talked about in class, the potential for open efforts to impact kids and their exposure to a computer science education. For many kids, a computer science education can look rather cryptic or have a “nerdy” association that is typically associated with boys. However, we looked at the Farming for the Future project where students can be exposed to a project where their code can end up creating a plant. The idea of associating computer science with something more tangible like creating a plant could help kids better understand how computer science could tailor to their interests more. This in turn could make the computer science field more accessible for kids who may not have experience or prior interest in computer science.
