---
layout: post
title: week 11
---

# Blog Post 11: Open Source in Cinema and Design System Project Progress

## Open Source in Cinema

This past week, we spent time in class first viewing how different industries use open source software. An industry we looked at that stuck out was cinema. During our Tuesday class we watched a video interviewing Carol Payne of Netflix and Larry Gritz of Sony Pictures. In the video they discuss how the film industry once had a culture of developing their own tooling internally or purchasing proprietary off-the-shelf software. Nowadays though, film studios are more increasingly inclined to collaborate on developing tools using open source methodologies. The professor specifically stopped the video at one point when they talked about how sharing the software for one project they were working on would help standardize the file formats so that everyone would be using it. As such, the intent was not a solely altruistic one, but it also had the intent of popularizing their new methodologies.

 I also found it interesting how there is an organization, the Academy Software Foundation, that provides a unified place where film-related open source projects can live. Oftentimes with open source projects, the original creators might just leave to pursue other passions and leave the repository unmaintained which could impact companies that are using the open source software. On the flip side, ​​having specific companies like Sony, Pixar, or AWS host and maintain the package means that you are then at their mercy. As such, having the  Academy Software Foundation where people working for them are on regular salaries and not from specific companies, helps to ensure that cinema open source projects are maintained. Companies interested in this work can be members of the academy to support the Academy Software Foundation’s efforts. Companies again are incentivized to use open source software, and support a project like Academy Software Foundation because they can use open source software as a more efficient, cost effective way to help them solve solutions in their organizations.


## Design System Project Progress

This past week, I worked on two separate issues and made pull requests for both of them. The first issue was the one I mentioned in my previous post, which was editing the official state header to be responsive to mobile devices. I made edits to make my code cleaner as suggested by lead contributor Aaron and also did “npm run build” within the component folder as instructed by them, before making my latest version of the PR. Currently, I am still waiting for it to be merged or not and will follow up on the status of it this week.

The second issue I worked on was adding an “X” icon to the down arrow dropdown menu, specifically in the components page of the website. I found animating an “X” icon quite difficult at first as I had trouble finding the scss and finding the “X” icon they used. As such, I brought up the question of where the “X” icon svg or path code is in the github issue. At the same time, I saw other full row dropdown menus in the website simply made the down arrow flip upward when being clicked to indicate that the dropdown can be opened or closed. I was able to make this change quite quickly and made the suggestion of just using that in the PR for consistency. Will also be following up on that, though, this week.
