---
layout: post
title: week 10
---

# Blog Post 10: Open Source Business Models and Getting First PR Merged 

## Open Source Business Models

Last week during our Tuesday class, we talked about different kinds of business models that open source organizations or organizations that utilize open source practices often rely on to fund themselves. Specifically, there were four broad models that were called out, Support and Services, Advertisement Partnerships, Paid Additional Features, and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). 

Support and Services involves providing technical support via the phone, for example, at a price for people who run into any issues using the software whether it's onboarding or integrating the software somewhere else. I found it particularly interesting when we watched the video with Gitlab CEO Sid Sijbrandij, when Sid explained how Gitlab originally used a Support and Services model. Sid explained how the model ended up failing because over time, they used their clients and their issues to improve Gitlab's documentation which in turn canalized their own business model. 

Advertisement Partnerships refers to showing ads on the open source software that are paid for by companies bidding for ads or screen space. For example, Mozilla gets over 95% of their revenue through a large ~$400 million deal they have with Google that allows Google to be the default search browser for Mozilla. Paid Additional Features can include things like OpenCore, which is a new term for me that I found quite interesting. It essentially involves having two versions of the software where one version is the free core version and the other has the core version plus other add-ons and proprietary features. Lastly, SaaS involves users of the open source product paying a periodic subscription for a particular service needed with the project such as cloud computing power. In addition companies may also rely on things like donations or government grants. For example, about 5% of Mozilla’s revenue also comes from donations.

In general I think businesses choose to utilize open source projects or make their code open source for a variety of reasons. Firstly, it can be cost effective since people participating in open source projects aren’t doing it for money, they’re doing it because they are genuinely interested. By essentially crowdsourcing, you also get increased speed of development since you allow anyone outside your potentially short-staffed team to contribute, and you can get insight from good talent around the world that you otherwise would not be able to get.


## Getting my First PR Merged

After communicating with Aaron and his team as well as interacting with comments from him and his team on Github, I was able to make the necessary changes to get my first pull request merged. While it is not merged with the main branch yet, it is merged into their next release branch. My pull request essentially makes images that are on feature cards clickable to improve the user experience for users who previously could only click on the text of a feature card to proceed. The hardest part for me was figuring out how their codebase was organized, finding which files were relevant to feature cards on the website, and getting ramped up on the tools they were using such as 11ty and .njk files. As a team, we also met up to help each other get ramped on these tools and we each sent over resources to read in our slack channel. At the end of the week, we also drafted an update email for Aaron and his team for their reference and Javier was able to send it out for us.

Since getting my first PR merged, I’ve begun working on another issue and have also just made another PR for that issue this past weekend. The issue involves making the official state header responsive to mobile devices so that it says “Official website of the State of California” on desktop and “State of California” on mobile devices. I’ve gotten some comments on the PR and suggestions on how I can clean up my code which will be my next step to work on so I can ultimately get my second PR approved.

