---
layout: post
title: week 13
---

# Blog Post 13: Team Presentations and Riju

## Riju

On Tuesday, Riju came in as our first in-person speaker of the semester and she spoke about her experience working on open source projects while in school and while balancing a full-time job. One of the projects she talked about working on was Fedora, which is a very large Linux distribution open source project sponsored by Red Hat. When working on large open source projects like Fedora, Riju specifically talked about the importance of contributing consistently.  Contributing consistently to large open source projects is important because the codebase can look extremely different day-to-day due to all the changes being made by people from around the world.  As such, if one doesn’t contribute or at least view code consistently, it can be easy to get lost. Riju even admits how things got very hectic for her while she was working at Blackrock and working on Fedora so she decided to stop working on Fedora for a while before picking up a new open source project. 

In general, Riju also mentioned some of her positive takeaways from working on open source projects, namely that it looks good on your resume, adds to your confidence, makes your more curious, shows a passion for tech, and is a great way to network with great minds across globe. 

## Group Presentations

On Thursday, we started our final group presentations. The first group to present was the Open Library group. It was clear that this group had good chemistry together and really enjoyed working with the Open Library team as their main point person, Mek was very responsive and passionate about involving them with the Open Library project. For example, I thought it was pretty funny how the group showed us a “Thank You” war that they got into with Mek. The range of types of contributions they made was also very interesting. One group member worked on translating documentation into Chinese and talked about how she had trouble translating certain computer science specific words such as “run” or “docker”. Another group member talked about how she got to work on making designs for the social card and actually got to interact with students from Greece who were also contributing to the project and working on that issue. And of course they had more “traditional” contributions such as css changes to ensure headers don’t go onto the next line. 

My group was actually the second group to present and we gave an overview of our project and our contributions. I was tasked with providing an intro to our project and what it is. I decided to pursue a more interactive intro by asking questions about people’s familiarity with design systems like Material UI and why we used such systems. I felt that it was effective in getting people interested in our presentation although I do think I could’ve transitioned our discussion about design systems into the California Government’s need for a design system more smoothly. Overall, I think our explanation of contributions, interaction with the team, and lessons learned was clear, although we did take longer than we expected to.

The last group was an Oppia group. Some of the contributions they talked about involved looking through code that hadn’t been touched in months and refactoring it to make sure it was as efficient as possible. Another contribution they talked about was adding comments about what type certain variables were. This contribution was supposed to be a quick one, but the group member talked about how they found redundant variables through this exercise and ended up almost re-writing a lot of the code to ensure redundancies were eliminated. Lastly, the group also talked about how long it took for them to run certain tests since the Oppia codebase had so many different parts. In fact, they mentioned how certain tests would take 15-30 minutes alone to run which made things difficult at times.
