---
layout: post
title: week 5
---

# Blog Post 5: Project Evaluation

## Project Evaluation

Firstly, I felt that the project we looked at “ohmyzsh” was a pretty cool product. Personally I am interested in user interface design. As such I think the “ohmyzsh” product is cool in that it helps take something really cryptic looking, like a terminal, and help improve the usability of it via aesthetic changes and functional shortcuts / plugins. I actually ended up downloading their product after the exercise and am still using it now.

In terms of the open source evaluation, I think there was some good documentation that was available on the site but in general it did not seem quite beginner friendly which stuck out to me as I am a beginner open source developer. Specifically, most of the code is written in Shell which is something I have no experience with so while I wasn’t surprised that the code and documentation seemed very foreign to me, it definitely stood out to me. I think including more examples, pictures, or a section dedicated to beginners, would be more helpful. As well, we also noticed that there was only 1 issue tagged as “for beginners” and that issue was a rather complex one regarding whether to update tags to support python or python3 which seemed to be more of a conceptual theoretical question that would require a lot of research, rather than an easy technical fix.

## Food Computer

The food computer project stood out to me the most as it was the easiest to understand for me and see in action. I thought it was cool how they used Raspberry Pi because it was a technology I actually recognized. I remember seeing people at hackathons use Raspberry Pi to create smart mirrors that would display things like the weather and that you could interact with via a touchscreen. 

As such, it was cool for me to see  technology again utilized in an open source manner to create something even cooler like food. In this case, I also thought it was interesting the number of components that went into the “foam” box and how they were controlled by the open source code via the Raspberry Pi. Elements such as the fans to control the temperature, the grill light to control the type of light emitted, the basin with water for hydration, and the air bubbler for oxygen were all cool to hear about as each plays a vital role in helping the plant grow and create food. 

