---
layout: post
title: week 3
---

# Blog Post 4: Browser Extension Projects

## Team 8 Browser

Working with team 8 on the browser was a good exercise in working with team members and creating software. Personally I’ve only ever worked in a team to create websites or apps so working on an extension together was a new experience. We relied a lot upon the Firefox starter activities we did in class for inspiration and for the building blocks of our code. Specifically the second browser extension we created in class helped us for the basis of how our popup should be set up for example.

Our inspiration for the browser extension in general came from a Wii Music Extension we found that played Wii music on certain websites. So we pursued a similar extension but with a Valentine’s Day website and love music and then also decided to add a border as well. 

Personally, I worked mostly on the border and being given the functionality to be turned on or off via a button in the popup. From this I was able to learn more about using “document” vs “browser” to access the popup screen and the actual browser screen. For example, in our extension, I made it so that there’s a pink border that occurs on both the browser and the popup screen as I found it interesting being able to manipulate both using our stop function. 

I think something that really helped our group was also being able to brainstorm together in Figma what our browser extension’s functionality should look like visually by creating rough wireframes. While our extension is quite simple and the Figma wireframes we made were also very simple, it was helpful for us to all be on the same page with what we were going to be aiming for.

## Less Ugly Brightspace

As for other teams and their extensions, I personally really enjoyed the group that made “Less Ugly Brightspace”. I think they explained their goals and how they executed on their goals very well as I was intrigued by how a bit of research into Material UI’s dark mode color standards and a few lines of code were able to accomplish a lot of their goals in making a solid dark mode for Brightspace. I also enjoyed how they were open about the shortcomings of their solution in that certain native tables or cards were still white as it provides clear pathways for other people to potentially come and contribute.

